translation3.md, before:

A. Grammatical analysis  

Augeae regis stercus bobile uno die *purgavit*, 
>maiorem partem
> Iove *adiutore*; 

flumine admisso totum stercus *abluit*.


taurum 
>cum quo Pasiphae *concubuit* 

ex Creta insula Mycenis vivum *adduxit*.


Diomedem Thraciae regem et equos quattuor eius,   
>qui carne humana *vescebantur*,   

cum Abdero famulo *interfecit*;  


equorum autem *nomina* Podargus Lampon Xanthus Dinus.  

B. Grammatical questions  

1. In the phrase, Iove adiutore, what case is Iove? What kind of construction is this phrase  
Iove is ablative - Ablative absolute.
2. What case is stercus, and why is it in that case?  
accusative because it is what is physically being washed.  
3. Identify the form of the adjective maiorem (gender, case, number, degree).  
feminine, accusative, singular, comparative 
4. Explain the construction of the verbal unit flumine admisso.  
flumine is ablative, and admisso is an ablative absolute
5. What are the gender, number, case, and antecedent of qui?   
masculine, plural, nominative, and equos  
6. What Latin verb form has to be understood in the clause that runs from equorum to Dinus?  
*erant*, because it is listing what the horses names are.   

C. Literary commentary  

Choose two choices of syntax, word order, or diction that Hyginus makes in this passage that complement or enhance the meaning of the passage’s content. Discuss briefly s in 3-4 sentences. Italicize Latin words when citing them.

1. I find Hyginus's use of the verb "*vescebantur*" to be worth looking into. It is the third-person indicative imperfect plural active of *vescor*, meaning both "eat" and "feed upon." I feel that horses actively "feeding upon" human meat is more intimidating than for them to simply "eat" it. This futhers the dangerous nature of Hercules's deed and makes his triumph more impressive. 
2. The word order of the clause *ex Creta insula Mycenis vivum adduxit* also causes intrigue. I believe that the placement of the adjective *vivum* towards the end of the sentence is done intentionally. This is because *vivum*, the masculine, accusative, singular form of *vivus* reveals that the bull (*taurum*) is alive when brought to Mycenae. Because this is more difficult than simply killing the bull, the magnitude of Hercules's achievment is realized. 

D. Translation

Hercules cleaned, in one day, the dung from the stall of King Augeas, with Jove helping for a major part; Because the river had been let in, he washed away all the dung. Hercules lead the bull, whom Pasiphae had laid with, alive from the island of Crete to Mycenae. He killed Diomedes, King of Thrace, and his four horses, who fed upon human flesh, and the slave Abderus. The names of the horses were Podargus, Lampon, Xanthus, and Dinus.

Commit message:

Needs a minor revision in grammatical analysis

translation3.md, after:

**Needs minor revision in grammatical analysis**
**Very nice translation!**

A. Grammatical analysis  

Augeae regis stercus bobile uno die *purgavit*, 

>maiorem partem ❌ **This is part of a main clause.**
> Iove *adiutore*; 

flumine admisso totum stercus *abluit*. ❌ **There are 2 verbal units here.**


taurum 
>cum quo Pasiphae *concubuit* 

ex Creta insula Mycenis vivum *adduxit*.


Diomedem Thraciae regem et equos quattuor eius,   
>qui carne humana *vescebantur*,   

cum Abdero famulo *interfecit*;  


equorum autem *nomina* Podargus Lampon Xanthus Dinus.  

B. Grammatical questions  

1. In the phrase, Iove adiutore, what case is Iove? What kind of construction is this phrase  
Iove is ablative - Ablative absolute.
2. What case is stercus, and why is it in that case?  
accusative because it is what is physically being washed.  
3. Identify the form of the adjective maiorem (gender, case, number, degree).  
feminine, accusative, singular, comparative 
4. Explain the construction of the verbal unit flumine admisso.  
flumine is ablative, and admisso is an ablative absolute
5. What are the gender, number, case, and antecedent of qui?   
masculine, plural, nominative, and equos  
6. What Latin verb form has to be understood in the clause that runs from equorum to Dinus?  
*erant*, because it is listing what the horses names are.   

C. Literary commentary   **Nice observations!**

Choose two choices of syntax, word order, or diction that Hyginus makes in this passage that complement or enhance the meaning of the passage’s content. Discuss briefly s in 3-4 sentences. Italicize Latin words when citing them.

1. I find Hyginus's use of the verb "*vescebantur*" to be worth looking into. It is the third-person indicative imperfect plural active of *vescor*, meaning both "eat" and "feed upon." I feel that horses actively "feeding upon" human meat is more intimidating than for them to simply "eat" it. This futhers the dangerous nature of Hercules's deed and makes his triumph more impressive. 
2. The word order of the clause *ex Creta insula Mycenis vivum adduxit* also causes intrigue. I believe that the placement of the adjective *vivum* towards the end of the sentence is done intentionally. This is because *vivum*, the masculine, accusative, singular form of *vivus* reveals that the bull (*taurum*) is alive when brought to Mycenae. Because this is more difficult than simply killing the bull, the magnitude of Hercules's achievment is realized. 

D. Translation

Hercules cleaned, in one day, the dung from the stall of King Augeas, with Jove helping for a major part; Because the river had been let in, he washed away all the dung. Hercules lead the bull, whom Pasiphae had laid with, alive from the island of Crete to Mycenae. He killed Diomedes, King of Thrace, and his four horses, who fed upon human flesh, and the slave Abderus. The names of the horses were Podargus, Lampon, Xanthus, and Dinus.
